# CS300-DSA-Analysis-and-Design
1. The problems that I was aiming to solve was to save course information for a university into a database that was effective and efficient for storing, sorting, adding, and displaying course data.

2. I approached this problem by exploring three different data structures that included a simple array, hash table, and binary search tree. After analyzing the different data structures, I ended up choosing to create a hash table for the final project. Data structures are important to understand because of the enormous difference in efficiency they can have when using large and complicated data sets. If an unsuitable data structure is utilized, it can slow a system to a crawl or completely deplete a system's memory while operating something as simple as sorting a large amount of information.

3. The largest roadblock I faced with the projects and other assignments was struggling to get my IDE to compile correctly. Eventually I switched to using visual studio which simplified the process by automatically installing the tools and compiler I needed. From there, I enlisted the help of some people familiar with coding to help me with my final project. Although, I have not mastered everything with utilizing the hash table and binary search tree data structures, I feel I understand the methodology and can program using them in simple applications.

4. This project has opened up my understanding on the nature of storing data. Now I understand some effective ways to optimize my code to more efficiently process and store data. This will add another layer of proficiency to my ability to program effectively.

5. The work on this project has allowed me to approach programming in a more sophisiticated way. I now have the ability to change my coding to suite the type of data and operations used for that data so that I can better optimize an application that I write. Since submitting project 2, I have been seeking out other algorithms to implement in my code as well. This course has also inspired me to better master the C++ language, which I hadn't understood I was lacking before-hand. Specifically, I understand the importance of inline comments and logically dividing operations into object methods which will assist in keeping my code more maintainable and adaptable. Using a specific data structure from this course will include understanding and utilizing specific operations to adapt to changes in size. This course ensured the understanding on how a program can create an adaptable size if a data set is dynamic.
